♪ ♪
(bell tolling)
(horse hooves clopping)
(horse neighing)
Lovely day for a walk,
eh, Holmes?
Yes, just look at our great
city, bustling with activity.
Even the chimney sweeps
are hard at work.
JEFFREY:
It's all dirty in here.
I don't care. Keep going.
Shouldn't I wear
some sort of protective suit?
Why? Don't you trust me?
I do, but our friend Bartholomew
went in lots of chimneys
in the '80s, and now he's sick.
Holmes, there's something
I have to tell you.
‐I'm getting married...
‐I deduce, Watson,
‐that you're getting married.
‐I just said that.
Yes, but I had deduced it first.
That's what happened.
So, congratulations.
Thank you.
I thought you might be upset
because we won't be able
to solve mysteries...
Solve mysteries together.
Elementary.
Crown Jewels stolen!
"Another one bites the dust,"
says Queen.
And coming up,
Russia and Prussia
still named basically
the same thing.
Ghastly. Who would have
the audacity to steal the crown
off the queen's head?
Only one man, Watson.
Professor Moriarty,
the Napoleon of Crime.
I've had him on the run
for a year now.
His criminal empire
is in shambles,
but he won't go quietly.
I say, look, there's hotshot
20‐year‐old comedian
Benjamin Hill.
("Yakety Sax" playing)
Oh. That'll be funnier
when he's older and slower.
‐♪ ♪
‐(birds chirping)
Watson, this is the boat
to America.
How do you know that?
Because Neil Diamond
is on board. Look.
♪ September morn ♪
♪ We danced until the night
became a brand‐new day... ♪
I really hoped
he'd be singing "America."
Well, how will we know
who Moriarty is?
We've never seen him before.
The science of deduction.
Hold it right there,
Professor Moriarty.
Sherlock Holmes?
How did you know it was me?
When I see a man
about to go on a sea voyage
and not wearing a topcoat,
with no watch fob,
and whose spats are not
fully buttoned...
And the jewels
hanging out of my hat?
Yeah, and the jewels
hanging out of your hat.
(grunts)
He's got a gun.
Look out, Stew‐‐ Holmes!
God, this is gonna be
so annoying.
Watson, the scepter!
Aah! Lucky shot.
There was no luck involved.
From the angle
you were aiming the gun,
I extrapolated the path
of the bullet,
and triangulated
the deflection point...
Uh, is this...
is this speech for me?
Because he's dead.
(regal music plays)
For the court's amusement,
we now present
Sir William of Cosby.
Well, you see, the children
of today are wearing
their pantaloons so low,
gazoozle,
you can see the first three
layers of their undergarments,
zazzle, zoozle.
(snoring)
I get away with this
for another 122 years, you see.
Hello, Your Majesty, I have
recovered the Crown Jewels.
Mum, may I say, it's been
a pleasure serving you,
but I've decided to retire.
We are losing interest
in this conversation.
It would be a wonderful cap on
my career to have a knighthood.
Come, come, now, Holmes,
you're not...
(snoring)
COSBY:
Sometimes the bigger ladies
take a little longer, you see.
(horse neighs)
Really, Holmes, why retire?
There will still be
crimes to solve.
But with Moriarty gone,
and with you, my biographer,
leaving me for marriage,
there is little point.
Just gonna toss it
in the old waste bin.
Yup. Good‐bye, detective cap.
Yep.
And you, old chap, are about
to solve the biggest mystery
facing men of our time:
the wedding night.
I know, I'm just, I'm just giddy
with anticipation.
Lifting her nightgown,
nightshirt, evening cape,
boudoir coverall, torso doily,
and the various corsets
and trusses below.
Exposing her shame to God,
followed by brief missionary
coitus with no eye contact.
And then, five months later,
a stillborn child
the size of a digestive biscuit.
(knocking on door)
Constance.
John.
‐Hey.
‐'Sup?
So, my betrothed,
how go the wedding plans?
Oh, John, my father
is sparing no expense.
Boiled beef for every guest,
fish head stew, old cheese,
and men's attire
will be provided
by Gentlemen's Wearhouse.
You're gonna fancy the way
you look, this I vouchsafe.
‐What is it, Holmes?
‐It's an urgent missive
from Inspector Lestrade
of Scotland Yard.
Oh, darn, there's been a murder
and he's begging for my help.
Oh, darn, darn, darn,
this is embarrassing.
Now I've got to see if I can
dig that hat out of the trash.
Come, Watson, the game is afoot.
"Afoot"?
"Starting," "beginning."
Well, then just say that.
Enjoying all
the old‐timey jokes?
Don't worry, next week,
back to a normal episode.
Hmm, this is most curious.
It appears she was killed by our
old nemesis, the Scottish Brute.
That's impossible,
he's in prison.
I put him there myself
one year ago.
Nevertheless,
we can't ignore the evidence.
All his victims were prostitutes
whose names began
with the letter "V."
This one's name is Veronica,
as evidenced
by this satin softball jacket
that bears her name.
These threads are from
a Scotsman's plaid kilt.
The telltale locks of red hair.
But most significantly,
the Scottish Brute replaced
his victims' intestines
with bagpipes.
(bagpipe playing)
Want to give it a whirl?
("Heart and Soul" playing)
How could he accomplish
this murder from prison?
He couldn't.
There are only
two possible explanations:
either there's a murderer
who has copied
the Scottish Brute's methods,
or I put the wrong man away.
♪ ♪
(growls)
What are you in for?
Ah, I Rathboned
somebody's Cumberbatch.
(applause)
Well, well, well.
If it ain't me old nemesis,
Sherlock Holmes.
Hello, Brute, I've got
some questions for you.
Who did you tell
about the murders?
Nae a soul, 'cause I dinna
commit no murders.
I'm innocent, you nosy parker.
How can I believe you?
You're a common criminal.
All the prostitutes were killed
by a left‐handed assailant.
‐So?
‐So, I was born with...
two right hands.
‐(both gasp)
‐Dear God.
That means he couldn't
have been the killer.
That's right. You ever seen
a man with two right hand...
Oh, this... this thing was open.
That shouldn't be open, right?
No, no, I wouldn't think so.
I hope you will accept
my sincere apologies.
Oh, you've done more than
made up for it, Mr. Holmes.
I'm just happy to be free.
Ah, the world's changed
since I've been in there.
That puddle wasn't here.
That cloud wasn't there.
That window was open.
That lady
was four feet that way.
All right, well, I hope
you make a go of it.
Good luck with your fresh start.
PETER: Oh, where'd
that bird come from?
That's new.
Watson, I found
some important new clues.
These red locks of hair
I found at the crime scene?
They don't belong
to the Scottish Brute.
They belong to a woman.
How can you tell?
It's hard to explain, Watson.
Women are mysterious.
But don't ask me.
Ask contemporary personality
Oscar Wilde.
I prefer a man with a future
and a woman with a past.
(laughing):
Oh, splendid.
Well said, splendid.
All right, let's get out of here
before we're all arrested
for the crime of "bum‐fancy."
And now I will disguise myself
as a prostitute named Valerie.
What the devil is that?
It's my own invention.
A steam‐driven
mechanical exoskeleton.
Observe.
(whirring)
It's cutting‐edge
technology, Watson!
ROBOTIC FEMALE VOICE:
Exchange money
for sexual services, guv'nor.
Are you a bobby?
You have to tell me.
Mind the gap.
Astounding.
Yes. Now, I'll stroll
around the block,
and you'll proposition me, loud
enough so the killer can hear.
Love for sale.
Appetizing young love for sale.
♪ Love that's fresh
and still unspoiled ♪
♪ Love that's only
slightly soiled... ♪
Love for sale.
Lookin' good, honey.
STEWIE:
No blacks.
Love for sale.
Race‐contingent love for sale.
Did I hear your name
was Valerie?
Yeah, guv'nor.
Uh, have we met?
Your voice sounds very familiar.
‐(gasps)
‐(grunting)
What the hell is this?
STEWIE:
Watson, hurry!
Watson?
Oh, my God, Sherlock!
ROBOTIC FEMALE VOICE:
Watson, help.
(distorted):
Watson.
All I would've done
is be a perfect gentleman.
Sorry, got distracted.
Lot of rats in London.
That's for you.
Sorry we didn't
catch the murderer, Holmes.
And I'm afraid you'll
have to catch her without me.
My wedding is tomorrow.
Yes, about that, you know,
I was thinking.
Maybe you should put that off
for a little while.
You know,
sow a few more wild oats.
Oh, I've done enough of that,
my friend,
especially after that
raucous bachelor party trip
you threw for me in Las Vegas.
So... when do
the strippers arrive?
1952.
Watson, I don't know
how to tell you this...
but the murderer
we've been looking for...
it's your fiancée, Constance.
You lie!
You're just jealous!
Well, let's go to her place
and I'll show you.
Ah. Sorry, today was y'all's
cleaning day.
Y'all want me
to come back later?
M‐Maybe, maybe, yeah.
M‐Maybe, maybe another day.
JEFFREY:
That's fine, I'll pull out.
Just go easy,
it really hurt on the way in.
Ow. Ow. Ow. Ow.
(quieter):
Ow. Ow. Ow.
Constance? Are you here?
She's... she's gone.
I'm sorry, Watson.
Unfortunately,
it appears my deductions
were correct.
Not so fast.
Look, she left a note.
See, Holmes? It says here...
these are test results.
She has gonorrhea.
(sighs):
I...
I can't believe it.
My beloved Constance
is the murderer.
It's even worse than you think.
If she's a murderer
from this time period,
that means there will be
a terrible, pretentious musical
about her one day.
♪ ♪
♪ Behold the tale of Constance ♪
♪ The murderer in the bonnet ♪
♪ The murderer in the bonnet. ♪
Oh, I was wrong, I love it.
ENGLISH ANNOUNCER:
Will Watson and Holmes
track down Constance?
We'll be right back
after these
turn of the century messages.
(sighs) Another dull night
at the gentlemen's club.
What we need is
some room temperature gin.
'Ello, gents.
Fancy some
Room Temperature Gin?
Shut up, you slag!
No women allowed.
ENGLISH ANNOUNCER:
Room Temperature Gin:
drink it without women,
have an eel pie,
then go to bed.
Constance had the tickets
for our honeymoon to Paris.
No doubt she'll be using those
for her escape.
Very well.
Then we're off to France.
That's right.
We're off to Gay Paree.
‐What's this now?
‐Gay Paree.
Some‐‐ some people call it
"Gay Paree."
Oh, then I suppose
I should change.
Let's get separate rooms just so
we can spread our stuff out.
(horse neighs)
Quick, we've got
to catch the train!
Porter!
Watson, do you have thruppence
for the porter?
I have tuppence.
So you don't have thruppence?
How much do you have?
I have nuppence.
You're gonna get a comeuppance.
♪ ♪
Excuse me, sir, what's the next
stop for this train?
(babbling)
Ugh, I hate when they let
the infirm ride on the train.
Next stop, (babbling) Station.
Sir, you owe an apology to me
and all the good people
of (babbling).
It's nice of the locals to act
as their own train crossings.
Ding, ding, ding, ding, ding,
ding, ding, ding, ding.
♪ ♪
You know, I've never crossed
the English Channel before.
I hope no one from the train
is on this boat.
‐I'm wearing the same outfit.
‐I wouldn't worry.
Looks like it's just a bunch
of minor celebrities.
("Love Boat Theme" playing)
♪ Love ♪
♪ Exciting and new ♪
♪ Come aboard. ♪
Finally, Paris.
What an ordeal.
Yes, but how
do we find Constance
in one of the biggest cities...
There she is.
Quick, after her.
We have to chase her
through a series of shots
where she has
an inconsistent lead on us.
♪ ♪
This way, Holmes.
She's heading towards... Holmes?
I couldn't come here
and not do this.
She has appendicitis,
by the way.
(horse whinnies)
She must have gone up
this strange building.
What is it?
It's the brand‐new Eiffel Tower.
Well, let's hurry.
‐She's getting...
‐Oh, oh, hold on, hold on.
I think we may have just
photobombed
that family's picture.
♪ ♪
You'll never catch me.
(shouts)
Damn it, my heel is caught.
(grunts)
(shouts)
Constance!
Hang on, my darling.
John, I did it for him.
And you didn't mean to hurt me?
No, you're not getting
what I'm saying.
I didn't care about you at all.
Who did you do this for?
Why were you killing prostitutes
with the initial "V"?
(laughs)
The great Sherlock Holmes.
He said you'd never
figure it out,
and that he'd be victorious.
(laughs)
(screams)
Constance!
(thumps)
Ugh. Depardieu!
(cheering)
I can't believe
she's gone, Holmes.
Oh, you'll find someone.
You're a good guy
with a great body.
I still don't understand
what she meant
by "he said you'd never
figure it out, and..."
"That he'd be victorious."
Watson, that's it.
Didn't think I'd figure it out.
This calls for the old Sherlock
Holmes celebratory smoke.
I'll just light my pipe.
(thunder crashes)
(snoring)
What is the meaning of this?
I'll be replacing your innards
with these bagpipes,
Queen Victoria.
Not before we put you in jail.
What's with this "we" crap?
It's just you.
Oh, no, it's "we."
‐(gasps)
‐We made it just in time.
And I was able to fool you,
as I am a master of disguise.
Seems like you're just good
at dressing up like a woman.
Ah, you caught me, Mr. Holmes.
I suppose
it's back to jail for me.
You can dispense with the act,
Professor Moriarty.
Holmes,
what are you talking about?
Moriarty's dead. You killed him.
No, that was one of his lackeys.
Isn't that right, Professor?
(normal voice):
Very clever, Holmes.
What gave me away?
Constance. She said
that you'd be victorious.
That was the vital clue
that these murders
were for my benefit.
I was dismantling
your criminal empire,
and you wanted revenge.
You cannot catch
what you cannot see.
(evil laughter)
STEWIE: So, you concocted
an elaborate series of murders
with clues leading me to the
fictional Scottish Brute.
Meanwhile, two toothless,
British homeless people
had filthy sex in an alleyway.
They would become
the grandparents
of the guys from Oasis.
Meanwhile,
you had your girlfriend
seduce my best friend.
She arranges for me
to kill your imposter...
...and commits
an identical murder
so I would come
to the inescapable conclusion
that I put the wrong man away.
Constance would lead us
away from England
while you killed
the last "prostitute"
with the name "V."
And I'd get the blame
for freeing the man
who killed our beloved queen.
Brilliant.
Why do you think
Queen Victoria's a prostitute?
She formed an alliance
with the Dutch royals
for shared control of Guyana.
So... political.
One last mystery to solve.
Why do they call you Professor?
‐I teach at Hogwarts.
‐Really?
No. But we should've done that
instead of this.
(violin playing)
Holmes, with this case,
you saved
the entire British Empire.
Yes. Now it will last forever.
From South Africa
to the Suez Canal,
from Cyprus to Australia,
all of Canada and Grenada,
even Antigua and Jamaica.
India, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait,
Malawi, Bermuda, the Falklands.
Yes, all part of our empire.
I'll always miss...
The Maldives, Myanmar,
New Zealand, Nigeria, Pakistan.
Saint Kitts and Nevis.
Sri Lanka, the Sudan, Uganda,
and the United Arab Emirates.
BRIAN:
God, England sucks now.
(violin playing
Family Guy theme)
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH